What are the elements of your strategy?
Global marketing strategy in the 21st century.
What elements should your strategy contain?
Or what aspects should you think about to make your company successful?
The first element is a clear shift.
The shift is that the units of strategic planning are more and more often represented by regional or global markets.
What examples can we see?
First, we can see that there are industries whose markets are global in nature.
For example, the aircraft industry market, where there are a limited number of customers who have more or less similar requirements.
Thus, the supplier can consider this market as global and no longer divide the countries.
The second situation is that companies are gradually starting to focus on the global market.
These are some specific segments.
For example, global teenagers.
This segment is considered one of the most attractive.
Why? Because it has a number of people comparable to China's population.
There are about 1.3 billion teenagers.
This group has good financial capabilities due to the fact that their parents provide them with pocket money.
We see that companies like Coca-Cola, MTV, and Svoch are actively using the services of this segment.
Another example is the emergence of national marketing, in particular, the emergence of Muslim marketing.
Here we see how LG used this opportunity.
They invented the first so-called Muslim mobile phone.
It is different from the usual one because it has a built-in compass.
Therefore, a person can turn to the East during prayer.
The second aspect that you should pay attention to today, while developing your strategy, is the coordination of the marketing strategy with production and logistics distribution.
It is worth paying attention to Inditex and one of its most famous brands, the Zara retail chain.
Zara successfully coordinates all three elements.
Let's start with the fact that Zara listens to the market very carefully.
How does it listen to the market?
First of all, the company's designers are present at all fashion shows, whether in Milan, Paris, or New York.
The company closely monitors various publications in the fashion press, TV stories.
It sends its experts to the places of the fashion youth.
A very important element of the company's ear is the Zara retail chain.
This allows the company to really understand consumers.
Moreover, Zara has a much smaller percentage of unsuccessful products than the average industry.
1% versus 10%.
Despite the fact that the company offers about 11,000 names to the market annually versus 2-3 in the industry.
In addition, the company does it much faster than its competitors.
Zara is able to deliver its collection to its stores twice a week.
The full development of the design and production takes 4-5 months versus 6 months for the development of the design and 3 months for production.
We see that the company is already winning over its competitors.
In addition, the processes of delivery of finished products from the distribution center, which is located in Spain, are very well laid out.
Logistics inside Europe takes a maximum of 24 hours, outside Europe 36 hours.
Everything is built on the fact that the company has the opportunity to present its consumer with a modern design much faster than its competitors.
The third important aspect is the ability to transfer skills, knowledge, and experience across national markets.
Here is a very curious example of a company like Levi Strauss.
In particular, the company collects its managers from all over the world twice a year.
They have the opportunity to exchange ideas, skills, and models that could have been developed for a certain national market.
They have the opportunity to gradually transfer to other country markets.
The next element of the global marketing strategy is the creation of a coordinated brand architecture for international markets.
This is a very difficult task.
We see that a company like Unilever has been going for a long time.
This led to the fact that by the end of the 1990s, the portfolio of company brands had risen to 1,600.
This led to significant increases in costs and an increasing difficulty in managing such a machine.
What we are seeing now, or rather, this process began at the beginning of the century, is that companies that initially appeared on the market through absorption and accumulation of brands in their portfolios
gradually began to get rid of brands.
In particular, Unilever has already managed to reduce its portfolio by four times.
And it seems that this is not the limit.
This significantly facilitates management and increases the profits of this portfolio.
The next important aspect of the global marketing strategy is the change in the relationship in marketing channels.
We need to adapt to these changes.
What changes do we see?
One of the obvious changes is that the strength of retailers has increased significantly.
And, oddly enough, sometimes even large manufacturers have to make concessions.
In particular, it is quite curious that until 2000, such a well-known large American company as Kellogg, which produces dry breakfasts,
wrote on its packaging, if it does not say Kellogg on the packaging, it means Kellogg inside.
But since that moment, since 2000, this is no longer true,
because the German Aldi network has put conditions on all manufacturers of branded products
to supply their products to this network exclusively under the private brand of this network.
That is, Aldi.
And the company had to make concessions, otherwise its products would simply be washed out of the shelves.
The second aspect to pay attention to is that the manufacturer has now received an additional channel of direct access to the end consumer.
The Internet.
And here we are smoothly moving on to the sixth point, the development of an effective Internet strategy.
And here you will have to think about the following.
What role will your site play in the interaction with consumers, suppliers and other interested parties?
And the second aspect.
Will you use the Internet as a means of production?
And here we can look at the example of Levis Strauss, who created a new business for himself.
This is an Internet sample of Levis Strauss.
That is, you, as a consumer, can go to the Levis page, enter your parameters,
and then gradually create jeans for yourself.
Choosing a color, choosing a style, choosing the number of rivets or a line.
Everything you like most.
At the same time, the company states that only six basic classic models will be supplied to the traditional retail.
Everything else is on the Internet.
Developing your global marketing strategy, you will need to make a number of key decisions
in order to clearly decide how you will work in the international markets.
And the first thing you have to start with is to ask a general, fundamental question.
Will you go to the international markets or not?
Today we assume that the answer to this question is positive.
And then you will need to make a number of decisions, but already in the complex.
These mutually related decisions suggest answers to such questions.
Which markets to enter? How to enter these markets?
Here you have to decide on the model of entry, whether there will be export, licensing, joint venture, or something else.
And the sequence of entry, that is, whether you will enter the international markets in a sequence,
or you will dare to enter a number of markets at the same time.
The next aspect to deal with is the marketing program.
And here you will need to answer a number of questions.
What will you offer foreign consumers?
At what price? What channels of production will you use?
What means of promotion will you choose?
And finally, you will need to decide how to organize international marketing activities.
That is, decide who will be responsible for these operations.
In case you are not yet very serious about export activities,
it can be one person, or it can be a complex matrix structure.
But before we move on to the instrumental part,
I would like to warn you about seven so-called international marketing traps.
The first trap is the choice of a country or market according to the criteria of size and demand.
It should be said that many companies choose such markets as the Indian market or the Chinese market.
Assuming that the population is large, the demand for their products will be high.
But you need to be very careful with this,
because a large number of people does not mean that this population, for example, will accept your product.
Or that it will be able to pay for your product.
Therefore, you need to be careful here.
The next trap is underestimating existing competitors.
Again, many companies, in particular American and European companies that enter the Chinese market,
somehow did not fully recognize the strength of potential competitors.
In particular, even in such specific markets as the turbine market,
companies found that after some time, in addition to their high-quality products,
a similar Chinese product appeared at a much more attractive price,
and consumers began to switch to this product.
Therefore, be careful with your competitors.
Third, it is the expectation that motivation and benefits for consumers will be similar around the world.
Here is a curious example of Unilever, which introduced its Knorr soups to the Indian market.
It seems that when the product itself was tested, consumers said that the product was good.
But nevertheless, the sales were ridiculous, the company did not achieve the desired results.
Moreover, attempts to understand why this is happening did not immediately bear fruit.
It turned out that Indian women consider this product as a surrogate.
And their conscience simply does not allow them to feed their beloved family with what they consider to be a fake product,
because they do not need time to cook it, and their soul does not invest in it.
The next trap is the entry into the market at an unfair price.
There are two extremes here.
On the one hand, you can enter the market at a too low price,
and on the other hand, you can enter the market at a too high price.
What is the first two options dangerous for?
The price is too low.
A price too low can lead to the fact that your company will be accused of dumping.
This means anti-dumping proceedings, this means very serious fines.
The second aspect.
Here you can ask yourself a question, in fact, in different cases, whether it is important or not.
But nevertheless, if we go to the new market,
it is clear that the consumer does not yet know our product,
and we need to inform him somehow about our product, to convince him to buy our product.
If your price is too low, what will you use to advertise, promote your product?
Now let's look at the too high price.
In this situation, it may happen that you will definitely be present in the market,
but this presence will be only conditional,
because the consumer may not want to pay or will not be able to pay for your product.
In particular, Jaguar faced this problem on the Japanese market.
Although it would seem that the Japanese market, there is even such a stereotype,
that there the consumer is exclusively sensitive to quality and pays less attention to prices.
And yet, even there, Jaguar, having set too high a price,
was in a losing situation, a very low degree of penetration into the market.
The next problem or trap is entering the market without planning the expansion process.
You must immediately, today, when you are thinking about the possibility of expansion,
clearly plan and answer a number of very important questions.
The next trap is working with bad distributors.
Indeed, very often your success in the foreign market will depend on this,
or very much on this.
Will you have a good partner, your distributor,
who will be able to tell you where to go around some underwater stones
and how to better present your product to the end consumer.
Here, the next trap is quite close,
it is the loss of the brand's exclusivity.
In the case of a company that has a very serious brand,
which has an exclusive image,
for such companies it can be destructive to work with bad partners or distributors.
In particular, the example of the company Lacoste,
which was released on the American market, became a classic, one might say.
And they decided to use licensing as a model of entering the market.
They found a local company that bought the right to use their Lacoste brand.
But what did this licensee do?
He saw that the demand for Lacoste products was very high,
and in fact, he flooded the market with Lacoste shirts.
Moreover, he simply reduced the prices.
The company observed for several years that the exclusivity of its brand went down,
it became available.
Therefore, after a while, a decision was made to leave the American market.
And the company only returned to this market after a while.
And now it was only export.
It was a truly exclusive brand,
supported by the fact that it was sold in a limited number of boutiques.
It was a fairly high price,
confirming the prestige, exclusivity and quality of this brand.
Now let's finally figure out how to make these decisions.
What tools can help us here?
The first thing we should think about is the decision to leave the international market.
What alternatives do we have here?
It is clear that on the one hand, we can make a decision to enter the international market immediately.
On the other hand, this decision can be postponed,
or there may be a situation when you do not consider entering the international market.
This is not an option for you, for one reason or another.
What reasons will you choose from these alternatives?
What will affect your decision?
Your decision will be influenced by the goals, resources of your company,
motivation of your top managers.
By the way, it will largely depend on the experience of international activities,
top managers, owners, or leading employees of the company.
You will also pay attention to the competitiveness of your product.
Do you have a product or service that can be in demand in foreign markets?
The opportunities of international markets will be a noticeable factor of influence for you.
What else should we pay attention to?
You should decide whether you have enough resources to enter the foreign market,
or you need to find help and support.
In what aspects?
It can be providing information.
Then you will look for information about professional associations,
whether commercial or non-commercial,
that can help you in your export operations or enter the international market.
It can be a situation when you need help from a resource group.
Then you can try to join some companies,
to create a network to enter the foreign market.
You should decide what you do and what you can outsource.
It is quite often observed that companies outsourcing to some external companies
or organizations, ask questions like
conducting marketing research in foreign markets.
Of course, a specific qualification is needed for this.
But sometimes companies that are just starting to master the international market,
they outsource almost all of their export operations.
It is also possible.
Now, if we have made this decision,
we need to go through some important element,
that is, to conduct a strategic analysis,
to try to plan our activities,
what elements will be very important here,
what should you decide on.
The first thing you need to decide on is the competition level.
That is, what products of the market and in which country you need to be present.
There can be different possibilities.
I will give you an example of Heineken company,
which for some time was thinking about how to understand the market in foreign markets,
which it was going to introduce non-alcoholic beer Buckler.
It would seem that everything is clear.
You can choose exclusively the non-alcoholic beer market as a market and a competition level.
And then you will compete with non-alcoholic beer manufacturers.
But there is another situation, when you can look at this market more broadly.
And you can say that you are competing in the market of non-alcoholic beverages.
And then what?
It's just water, it's some cola, and so on.
That is, much more broadly.
How to understand what is more profitable for you?
This is your goal, and these are your resources.
Speaking of competition, you also need to understand what is more important for you.
You can create new products for existing customers.
If, of course, it was about the fact that in one way or another, you already have some customers in these foreign markets.
Or you start looking for new consumers for existing products.
The next block is goals and strategy tasks.
Here you need to decide on the volume, growth of sales, profitability of sales.
You need to decide what level of capital profitability or investment you want to get.
You need to decide on the intensity and sources of money flows.
That is, all the goals that can be transformed into the final financial result.
You need to understand all this.
And always, if it is immeasurable, how to manage it?
Accordingly, you must give a numerical answer to each question.
What is the level of profitability? What is the level of profitability?
You need to give a qualitative answer, not quantitative.
You need to answer the question, what needs to be done to strengthen competitive advantages?
And in fact, it can be even more important.
You need to understand the competitive advantages that you have.
Will they work in international markets?
Or do you need to look for something else?
The next block is related to the distribution of resources.
We say that all companies have limited resources.
And your decision is how to distribute them between countries or product markets.
Very often, at the first stages, we see that a lion's share of resources is still allocated to the domestic market.
And only the minimum resources are allocated to conquer international markets.
The goal of your strategy.
Here you return to this question.
Maybe at the first stages it will be the right decision for you.
And the second question is how best to divide the available resources between functional units.
To more successfully implement the strategy.
Companies usually add international units to their functional structure.
And then there are problems inside the company.
How to distribute resources between functional units that are oriented to the domestic market.
And those units that are oriented to the external market.
The next block of questions is related to the sources of competitive advantage.
And here you need to understand what are the sources for your company.
What do you have?
Maybe it's access to cheaper resources.
Or vice versa.
You have a highly qualified workforce.
And this is closely related to the next question.
How long will you be able to maintain this advantage?
If you have access to something cheap, you will not be able to maintain this advantage for long.
And if you have access to something cheap, you will not be able to maintain this advantage for long.
And as we said, you need to understand what you need to do to strengthen these competitive advantages.
Or maybe it's really about buying something new.
And finally, the sources of the synergetic effect.
Can you provide a combined use of resources to promote your products to different markets?
And by the way, is there an opportunity to use competitive advantages?
Especially if you have such a competitive advantage as a strong brand.
Accordingly, a strong brand, if you can use it on many country markets, will give you real economy.
And it will become more understandable for international consumers.
And, accordingly, it can raise the image of your company in the eyes of foreign consumers.
Now our next question, our next solution.
Which international markets should companies enter?
We have two alternative approaches to choosing international markets.
The first approach assumes that you perceive the global market as a country or a group of countries.
The second approach assumes that you consider the same global market.
But now from the perspective of a group of consumers with similar characteristics.
What are the differences between these approaches? What are the advantages and disadvantages?
The first approach is certainly good because you have the opportunity to use secondary information.
Accordingly, information that is more accessible and cheaper.
You know very well that statistics are collected in countries.
This fundamentally distinguishes this approach from the second approach.
Where you may have a problem with getting this information.
Since in these conditions it will be that you will probably need primary research.
Which will naturally make this event more expensive.
And the second aspect is that there is a real problem with collecting reliable cross-national statistics.
Accordingly, the first case is easier in terms of obtaining information.
The second is perhaps much more objective.
Since you can collect adequate information about the group of consumers that you are interested in.
The second aspect is where these options diverge.
Traditionally, we talk about the fact that the sale and promotion of products is organized by country.
But in the second case, we have a problem with how to organize the sale and promotion.
If it can happen that consumers of this global segment are located very far from each other.
Accordingly, the first method tells us that, alas, we will not always have an adequate marketing picture.
Since consumers in one country may be more different.
Than consumers who are located in different countries.
And should differ more from each other.
But nevertheless, in this case, they or they can organize this group with similar characteristics.
The choice is yours.
Now let's see what tool can be used to select foreign markets.
And I suggest you use a tool that actually works like a set of seeds.
You can imagine it very clearly if we talk about a set of seeds.
And what is important is that each seed has a smaller diameter of this cell.
And, accordingly, it allows you to get more and more information at each level.
In this case, when we talk about selecting target markets,
you can get the most targeted markets, removing those that do not suit you.
Now how is this done?
Step by step.
The first step is the most obvious.
You start by exploring the macro level.
At this step, you analyze the overall potential of the country's market.
And here you get help from resources such as various statistical collections,
where you can get economic information.
For example, as a criterion for the cutoff, you can use GDP per capita.
Or some other criterion that is important for your company.
You can also use criteria such as the political environment.
And here, in order to get some quantitative assessment,
you can use indexes that are formed by various independent organizations
that assess the political environment, political risks, work in different countries.
And you can use this index at a certain level, not lower.
In this case, if the risk is higher than the level that is acceptable for you,
then this country is rejected.
In the same way, you can use factors such as social structure or geographical factors.
Here we are talking about setting a criterion that will allow you to adjust.
Some country gives you opportunities, and you consider it further.
Some country is not suitable for you, and you reject it.
At the next step, we already remember the market of our product.
Before that, we talked exclusively about the country's market.
Now, our best friends are indicators, for example, of the size and growth of your product market.
Or if we are talking about a fundamentally new product that is not yet present in this market,
or is not present at all in the global market,
then we look at the trends or the size and growth of the market of similar products.
How recognized are they in the world?
And we rely on this knowledge.
In this case, if it is a clear product and its market exists in the world,
then you rely on factors such as the stage of development of this market.
Why is it important to us?
Because if you see a situation where the market of a product in your country and on the international market is at different stages,
then it may require your company to adapt to your marketing complex.
And these are additional costs.
If you are not ready to go to these additional costs,
if we find these same discrepancies in the stages of development, in the stages of the life cycle,
we reject the country.
In the case if you are satisfied with such costs, great, but then this criterion is not interesting to us,
we just do not expose it.
Taxes and fees.
Of course, this will be directly related to the model of the input you will apply on this market.
It is clear that if we are talking about high tariff protection of the market,
despite the fact that you are going to export it,
this may be the first signal that you reject this country.
Or if we are already talking about the fact that you want to organize local production in the country,
then the issue of taxes and fees from residents may become more critical for you.
And, accordingly, the level of this very tax protection or tax time that exists in this country
can also become a detracting criterion for you.
Another very important aspect is the various difficulties in entering the market features.
Let's say your company is engaged in direct sales.
Look at how such companies as Avon or Mary Kay Cosmetics operate,
which use this very sales staff promoting their products.
If you go to the country market, where there is simply no physical,
there is no extensive workforce that can be attracted as a sales staff,
this will become a barrier for you, and this is a difficult feature of the market.
And this market goes beyond consideration.
At this stage, you should try to combine some quantitative indicators.
For example, the market size should not be less than a certain level,
or the market growth should not be less than 5% per year.
It may also be that you indicate a certain barrier,
and if this barrier exists, the country is rejected.
If there is no barrier, it is considered further.
The next element of our analysis is the micro-level research.
At this level, you start to consider the factors that affect the profitability of the country's operations.
Only at this stage do the analysis and assessment of existing and potential competitors appear.
It is not a secret that this is very expensive information, and it is very difficult to collect.
If you have a huge number of countries and a huge number of competitors, it is a huge expense.
At this stage, you start to analyze competitors,
you analyze the costs of entering the market.
It should be said that very often, if we talk about B2C markets,
that is, the markets that serve the end consumer,
barriers to entry are, for example, costs for the sale of products,
costs for the promotion of products.
Moreover, I will give you an example of the American non-alcoholic beverage market.
It is believed that the exporter is forced to spend about 30% of his export revenue on the promotion of products.
Otherwise, the share of your brand's voice will be so weak in this general cloud, in general noise,
that no one will know about it, and who will buy it then.
Accordingly, what else are we paying attention to?
Here we analyze sales, here we analyze the potential growth of profits.
All this, this complex analysis, allows us to say that we can range segments on profitability.
That is, the country that you have chosen, the market that you have chosen, you are already splitting into segments.
Sometimes this stage is called micro-segmentation.
Here you look at specific segments of the non-alcoholic beverage market.
Depending on how you are used to segmenting this market,
you can select segments with preferences for prices, preferences for taste, and so on.
And already inside, look, arrange these segments on profitability.
And this will allow you to choose those segments that you think are the most attractive.
And then proceed to the process of strategic planning.
What is the model of the entry?
Our next decision is related to how we will enter the market.
And by choosing the model of the entry, we can rely on three conditional rules for choosing the model of the entry.
The first of them is called the naive rule.
Why naive?
Because the company follows the rule of choosing, or rather using, a single model of entry for all foreign markets.
What is the problem here?
Yes, of course, you may have an already developed strategy, a developed model,
but nevertheless, you ignore the uniqueness of international markets.
If you are used to export, you use the export model,
you must understand that each market is protected in different ways.
We are talking about tariff and non-tariff barriers.
And here the situation may arise that you use export,
if there is some serious protection of this market.
This will be a clearly erroneous decision.
The second rule is pragmatic.
In this situation, you use exclusively profitable models of entry.
But at the same time, you remember that as soon as the model ceases to be profitable, you switch to another one.
What is the problem here?
The fact is that, as practice shows, profitable models are not always the best.
We saw this quite recently when I gave you an example with Lacoste.
Yes, of course, licensing in their case was absolutely profitable.
But the other thing is that the brand began to suffer.
And this is the asset, the most important asset of the company,
which cannot be lost or which is desirable not to be injured.
And therefore, I repeat, profitable models are not always the best.
And there is a third rule for this, a strategic rule.
It says that you must systematically evaluate and compare alternative models of entry,
and use a whole list of criteria.
These are the company's resources, these are the risks, these are non-commercial goals.
But, of course, this requires serious analytical efforts from you,
the need for strategic planning.
What are the alternative options when choosing entry models for foreign markets?
Usually, there are three types of these strategies.
The first type of strategy is export strategies.
Almost all companies that start on foreign markets resort to them.
This is perhaps the most common entry model.
What is good about export?
Export is good because it allows you to diversify the sales.
It is not a secret that different markets can be at different stages of development.
And when you use export, you can see that some markets are going down,
and some are going up.
And thus, in general, your export strategy will be balanced.
What are the features or models that are included here?
Export is usually divided into two types, indirect and direct export.
Indirect export assumes that you produce your product on the domestic market,
and then sell it to the intermediary that is located on your market.
And the ownership rights go here.
And then you practically do not control the marketing system.
The intermediary and the customer are responsible for your product.
With direct export, your intermediary is located on the receiving markets.
And in this case, the company has more control and, accordingly,
more opportunity to influence the marketing system.
If we look at the contract models,
there are usually five types of strategies.
These are licensing, franchising, contract management,
key contracts, and contract production.
I would like to draw your attention to the first two types,
because here marketing plays a significant role,
while in the last three,
the share of companies that go to foreign markets
is almost not marketed.
Let's look at licensing.
What does licensing imply?
Licensing implies transferring rights to the use of a patent
that protects the technological process
and or the trademark of another company
for a certain period and for a certain fee.
Accordingly, this certain fee can be a fixed,
so-called pauschal payment,
and it can be a variable, this is royalty.
This variable payment is usually calculated as a percentage
of the sales volume, or, let's say,
it can be a percentage of the profit,
it can be a percentage of the price of the licensed product.
And why is licensing good for companies?
Why is it used?
On the one hand, licensing allows you to avoid problems
that may arise from the point of view of market protection,
because the market is tariff-based,
and, accordingly, the export is not very suitable.
On the other hand, licensing is sometimes better
than, for example, the organization of production on this market,
because this market is not large enough,
not attractive enough for the company.
It understands that the costs will be much higher
than the profit you will get as a result
of using the enterprise in full ownership on this market.
Therefore, licensing is a kind of intermediate option.
Franchising is another model
that allows you to transfer something,
but in this case it is assumed that you transfer,
in addition to the right to use the patent,
the right to use the trademark,
you also transfer approaches to business.
And here we have classic examples of the use of franchising.
There are such companies as McDonald's,
and many fast food chains operate in exactly this logic.
There are also companies like Zara
and other companies operating in the retail sphere
that also quite often resort to this model.
And finally, investment models also have several invested opportunities.
Opportunity number one is joint ventures.
Joint ventures are certainly very good
because you get a local partner
who has the knowledge, skills, skills
to interact with this business environment.
They can tell you what is most in demand.
And don't forget that there is a risk diversification.
Therefore, it is often said that joint ventures
are almost a panacea against political risks.
This is a strategy to reduce political risks.
Strategic alliances.
What are their differences from joint ventures?
It is not always the case that new organizational units arise.
It may be informal companies,
but nevertheless, companies are united by certain common goals.
These alliances can be based on the possibility
of providing each other access to local markets
of companies participating in the alliance.
It may be that these alliances are based on joint production.
It may be that these alliances are mostly built on technology transfer.
The problem of strategic alliances is that
over time, the goals and tasks of the companies
participating in the alliance may change
and gradually begin to diverge.
This often leads to the fact that
the alliances cease to exist.
The next model is a full-time enterprise.
This is the most costly and problematic model
of entering the market from the point of view of risks.
This is because you make significant investments
in the international market.
You must carry out real analytical work
that will allow you to make this decision.
There are two other investment models.
This is a full-time enterprise.
In fact, there are more than two models.
Because absorption is one of the options.
But in the first case,
let's say you create an enterprise from scratch.
In this situation, you can initially adjust the format
for your business.
In particular, we see that this is how
such giants of retail trading as Metro or Ikea
entered the Russian market.
Another option is absorption.
When you buy an existing company
and you actually draw its existing sales channels,
its goods, and its brands into your business.
Thus, both the first and the second options
are the most costly and the most risky for us.
Let's see how the company can make a choice
from these possible alternative options.
I suggest you take a piece of paper
and draw some important squares for us.
The first square will indicate profitability.
In this scheme, you see that profitability
is indicated by the ROE indicator.
But you can use not this accounting indicator,
but the income indicator.
The second square is the international risk factors.
Under this square, I ask you to write
the most significant factors that will affect your business.
There are three more very significant squares.
These are assets, costs, and sales.
These five squares are the most important for us.
There is another one, of course.
It is the head office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs,
which dictates the goals.
Or, if we are talking about a company
that has not yet reached the multinational level,
we should indicate the goals that the company pursues
in the international markets.
Why did I ask you to do this?
Because these are the key elements of the analysis.
The company conducts analysis number one.
It is the analysis of sensitivity.
When you consider the international risk factors
that you have written down and their influence on profitability.
The time horizon is 3-5 years.
And most often, you are actually creating a scenario.
For example, if the income of the population is reduced by 3%,
how will this affect our profitability?
And so on.
When we talk about assets, you should clearly understand
which type of asset is the most important for you.
Is it the turnover or the main capital?
Naturally, we see that as we move from export to local production,
the importance of the main capital will increase for us.
Because we need more turnover,
if we are talking about a trade representative, for example.
The next element of the analysis is the costs.
And here you should look at the costs,
let's say, for local materials, local labor, and so on.
You should compare them with the costs
that are associated with production on your domestic market.
And here, as you can see in this diagram,
we have constant costs as we move from export models to local production.
And the variable costs are the opposite.
And finally, the sales.
Another important element of our analysis.
You should assess the volume of sales you want to achieve on this market.
Of course, the market share will affect this,
which, in turn, depends on the market potential.
But we all remember that you can influence the market share
through your marketing actions.
In this case, the scheme is defined through marketing expenses.
So, what do we see?
All these models can be arranged
by the degree of control of the necessary assets,
variable and constant costs, market share and risk.
By combining all the elements of the analysis,
you can choose the best model for you.
What is the role of the international marketing strategy?
Now we are going to move to the next level of the international marketing strategy.
It is defined by the international positioning strategy.
The practice shows that there are three most important opportunities
for positioning goods and services in global marketing.
The first is positioning in accordance with the global consumer culture.
In this situation, you show your brand as an attribute of this global consumer culture.
What are the goods that are used for?
These are mainly companies that produce high-tech products
or companies that produce high-touch products,
that is, products that require a high degree of emotional involvement of the consumer.
In the first case, high-tech,
we show that we speak the same language with the consumer.
This specific language of technical terms
or something that can be understood by the mass consumer of high-tech products.
Here, companies often use two main attributes
or two main characteristics that they play with
and show that this is a brand for this target audience
that speaks the same language.
This is experience and this is professionalism.
I can give you an example, but not high-tech,
a mixed area.
This is the Banking sector.
Chase Manhattan Bank.
One of their slogans was
the following
Profit from experience.
Thus, they positioned their bank
as a bank that has a very significant experience of interacting with consumers
and can provide them with maximum protection
or the most favorable conditions.
If we talk about high-touch products,
here we can see how such positioning is used by L'Oreal.
Remember their famous slogan,
I am worthy of it.
Thus, we are called to touch the global consumer culture,
the main criterion of which is beauty,
which will save the world.
Our next positioning strategy is
positioning in accordance with the foreign consumer culture.
What is happening here?
You try to tie your brand to a certain country,
to the culture of this country,
and thus play at the best,
the most valuable thing in this country.
There are many examples here.
It is very interesting to look at how vodka is positioned.
In particular, in the American market,
you can clearly see that some brands use this strategy.
In particular, if we look at how the capital is positioned,
and what they use,
they use the symbolism of Russia of the 1920s.
A reference to Mayakovsky, to the KGB,
and their advertising campaign is based on this.
On the other hand, there is Polish vodka Belvedere,
which refers us to the foreign, that is, Polish culture
with the slogan that 500 years ago,
when people tried to turn lead into gold,
the Poles invented a way to turn rye into vodka.
Thus, all this clearly refers us to the foreign consumer culture
and tries to instill in a foreign consumer
a desire to buy these goods
and, accordingly, to make them fall in love with the country
and the product it produces.
At the same time, the most important thing to remember
is that this strategy has clear limitations.
The fact is that it is largely based on stereotypes.
If there is a clear connection between Russia and vodka,
or vodka and Russia, it doesn't matter,
then this positive connection,
this positioning will be successful.
If there are no such connections,
the consumer will not understand what you are talking about.
In particular, this is well understood by the research results
carried out by New Zealand companies.
They conducted research in Japan
on what the Japanese associate New Zealand with.
It turned out that the strongest association is sheep.
While, say, industrial products are not known at all,
are not perceived at all, and have negative associations.
Finally, positioning in accordance with the local consumer culture.
This is, if you want, a development of the previous positioning strategy,
but at a lower level.
When you show that your brand is used in a certain area,
or it is produced in this area.
Look how recently the Levenbrau brand
is actively linking its brand to Oktoberfest.
We can also trace a number of beer brands
that work this way.
What are the goods that are good for?
Basically, as practice shows,
it is mostly good for food products,
which carry a very obvious color
and a link to a certain area.
Whether it is Swiss cheese,
and to a specific area,
or French champagne.
What are we talking about? Champagne.
This is the same option.
Now we need to figure out
what product strategies we use and how.
If we look at the innovative strategies used by companies,
we should pay attention to the fact that there are two blocks.
This is the follower strategy,
and this is the market leader strategy.
Let's deal with the follower.
The follower can use the imitation strategy.
We are not saying that this is something new.
In this case, you are imitating an existing product.
You are not adding anything to it,
you are not improving it.
In this case, the company pursues the goal
of making a profit in the short term.
Moreover, such companies often
try to supply their products,
for example, to retail chains,
to their brands.
Another type of the follower strategy
is modification.
When you change a product in several ways,
but it does not affect the essential features
and characteristics of the product.
It can be a shape that is better,
more successful than the main product.
It can be a color or something else.
It can be some minor attributes.
The goal is to make a profit in the short term.
On the other hand, you are more active
in declaring yourself and marking your presence on the market.
But again, when we talk about a brand,
you often do not develop your own brand.
You are leaving the OEM and private brands.
Finally, there are two types of the leader strategy.
The first one is when you use an improvement strategy.
You offer improved products to the market
that are fundamentally different from existing products.
They add value.
You are already saying that your goal
is to make a profit in the medium term.
At the same time, you are developing the market.
When you offer several modifications
for different segments of the market.
Someone needs washing machines
that allow you to save electricity.
Someone needs water resources.
In this situation, the company develops its own brand
rather than hiding behind private brands or OEMs.
Finally, there are innovative products and strategies.
You are already saying that you are creating
something fundamentally new for the market.
Just like Sony invented Walkman.
In this situation, we are talking about your own brand
and your goal to make a profit in the long term.
Now we should pay attention to one of the important components
of the product strategy,
which is often highlighted in a separate section.
It is branding.
Of course, it is science and art.
We will look at the main elements of the brand strategy
that you should follow
when you are developing a brand
and launching it on the foreign market.
The first thing to start with
is developing a long-term strategy for the brand.
For example, will it describe the product category
or will it be a more descriptive name?
For example, a sports master will describe the brand
or a brand virgin will describe the product category.
The second thing is to decide how your new brand
will fit into the entire architecture of your brand
and into the hierarchy of brands.
Will it be a mother's brand or a sub-brand?
How will it relate to all your brands?
Next, you should make a serious analysis of the costs
for the development, legal verification, registration of your name,
and its protection.
You will have a list of costs and the actual costs
that you will incur.
The next thing is to consider as many options as possible
for the names of the brands.
You should not limit yourself to one brand
that you like very much.
It may turn out that at the legal verification stage
this name belongs to another company.
Or there may be some other problems at the next steps.
So, consider as many options as possible.
You can even consider the creation of the Pentium brand.
The creators of the Pentium brand considered about 1500
different names.
It is a very serious job.
Start with a large number.
Next, you should set very clear criteria for choosing a brand.
The most common criteria are the brand's name,
the associations you want to put in it.
It is a determining factor.
But since we are talking about the fact that our brand should work
in a foreign language environment,
another important criterion is the ability to pronounce this name
in different languages.
So, there should be no problems with pronunciation,
no negative associations when pronouncing this name.
For this, we need the following step.
Consultation with native speakers of different languages.
This will also allow you to exclude the words
with negative double meanings.
Again, there are some unpleasant aspects.
In particular, General Motors faced this problem
when they introduced their Chevrolet Nova brand
in Spanish-speaking countries.
But it turned out that Latin Americans,
Spanish-speaking people,
pronounce the word Nova in a different way.
It means that it does not work, it will not work.
It is a bad advertisement for a car.
Next, you should look at how the name you chose
fits into the general business strategy of the company.
All employees of your company should know and understand this.
Finally, you should allocate enough resources
to convey the chosen name to the target audience.
Of course, various communication tools will help you here.
Now, what are the alternatives in the field of international branding?
We can divide these alternatives into four main options.
The first option is a single brand for all foreign markets.
Look at how Coca-Cola holds the brand Coke.
It sounds like Coke in absolutely all countries.
What do we get in this case?
We get the effectiveness of marketing.
Because you have a single brand everywhere,
you do not need additional costs.
And, of course, this is just for international consumers.
Because in every country you can see your favorite Coke
and you will not have any problems with trying to find out
whether this is the drink you are looking for or some other.
The next option is when you use a corporate brand
as part of the umbrella approach.
When you open a corporate brand as an umbrella
over all the products your company produces.
Look at how 3M, Sony and many other companies work.
The same thing.
The maximum effectiveness of marketing is very simple for international consumers.
But both in the first and second case,
you make a significant assumption that the markets are homogeneous.
And, first of all, despite the fact that your brand will move from one market
and from one language environment to another,
you believe that there will be no problems with the perception and pronunciation of this brand.
Moreover, if we say that we show our product to you in one person,
one brand is used,
then you must meet the very high standards of quality everywhere.
And in the case if a consumer under the same brand,
but in different countries, finds different products of high quality,
it can seriously affect the image and reputation of your company.
And, accordingly, these two approaches are gradually moving towards
turning these brands, single brands, into global brands.
In order to get another very good advantage.
This is an additional power over retailers.
Because in fact, not a single self-respecting retailer will allow
the assortment of products of this global brand not to be present.
Now let's move on.
What other alternatives do we have?
This is an alternative, a single brand adapted to the local market.
It is designed to solve the problems of avoiding the market's agomogenity,
and solve the problems of the difficulty of pronunciation,
negative associations,
that is, everything that can worsen the image of the brand.
What example can be used here?
For example, Sasyete Big,
probably a well-known French company,
which produces disposable blades, pens, and so on.
In particular, the founder of the company, Marcel Biche,
was forced to abandon the last letter of his last name,
the letter H,
because when moving this brand to the English-speaking language environment,
there were clear negative associations.
If we look at the problems that arise here with this solution,
it is certainly a higher level of costs compared to our first two cases.
Now, the case of the highest costs,
when you call the same product in different markets in different ways,
that is, your brand for each local market.
What else is problematic here?
Of course, this is difficult for international consumers.
If you travel and discover in some country that your favorite brand is called in a completely different way,
you sometimes start to have additional questions.
Is it a brand at all?
Maybe it's some company that mimics,
tries to imagine that this is my favorite brand.
Therefore, there are problems here.
But this certainly gives a very serious advantage.
Yes, you have no problems with pronunciation and so on.
You have the opportunity to actually get closer to the local consumer.
He will consider you his.
And the third is the ability to vary the quality of the product from country to country.
Let's take one example, the most obvious.
This is one of the brands of Unilever,
the Snuggle brand,
which is based on a product like a tissue softening compound.
But when you move from market to market,
it turns out that even in Australia this brand sounds like Hagi.
In Spain it's Mimosin.
In Italy it's Coccolino.
And so on and so forth.
But if we still translate all these names into Russian,
it turns out that the softness is still based on different languages.
Yes, it's close to the consumer, but the costs are very high.
And in fact, this is the option that companies are already starting to move away from.
It's very costly.
Let's move on.
And let's see how international pricing strategies are determined.
And the first problem that companies face
is that when you start exporting your products to foreign markets,
it suddenly turns out that the consumer on your domestic market
and the consumer on some international markets
pay two different prices.
And it is clear that the foreign consumer pays more.
And often much more.
And what can this lead to?
To the fact that he simply will not want to buy your product at such a high price.
What makes such a serious increase in price?
You can see that starting from the domestic market,
you have two additional blocks of costs.
The first block of costs is related to the export cost
before the importer enters the country.
And here we can include the costs of operating the export service,
insurance costs, consular fees at the airport or at the sea, and so on.
The second factor or the second group of factors
is the import cost when the product arrives in the country of the importer.
And here we include customs duties,
and the costs of warranty storage,
that is, the customs warehouse,
and the cost of storage in the trading warehouse,
and all our marketing and household costs,
and the formation, let's say, of commercial loan financing.
As a result, what do we see?
The export price is much higher than the price of our domestic market.
I suggest you stop the presentation now
and formulate the possibilities of reducing the effect of the export price escalation.
Let's try to answer this question together.
There are five ways to reduce the effect of the export price escalation.
The first, quite understandable way is to reduce the length of the supply channel.
That is, you try to either remove some intermediaries
or switch to direct supply.
If we remove these additional intermediaries,
we, among other things, also minimize the effect of the import price escalation.
The second option is when we start to reduce the costs
due to the fact that we are taking away some very expensive characteristics or features of the product.
That is, you try to simplify the quality of the product a little
or offer this market, let's say, some simplified models.
The next option is to deliver components and assemble products on the foreign market.
That is, you reduce the amount of customs duties
due to the fact that the final product is much more expensive than the components.
The fourth option is to modify the product in order to transfer it to another customs classification.
And finally, the reduction of the price of the manufacturer.
How?
This is done by means of marginal price education.
In order for us to understand what marginal price education is in this case,
let's first turn to the table of alternatives to export price education.
Here you see that we have several options for setting prices on foreign markets.
In fact, when it comes to export price education, there are three basic approaches.
The first approach is that you use a single standard price for all absolute markets,
both internal and export.
This is column number two.
Another option is when you use the so-called double price education.
You have two prices.
The first is the price of the internal market, and the second is the price of the export markets.
And finally, the third option is the differentiated price education.
In this case, you develop your own strategy, and you have a price for each of your export markets.
If we look at the first two approaches, they are based on the analysis of costs.
And here we turn to the table.
There are two options.
The first option is when we follow the plus-cost method.
That is, you transfer all absolutely real costs to the product.
And what we see in the third column at the exit is that you get a fairly high price
for the end international and foreign consumer.
A slightly different approach involves using marginal price education.
And here we are talking about zeroing out your permanent costs.
You zero out your, say, production overhead costs.
And all this allows you to reduce the price.
The other thing is that you understand that in this situation,
your internal market will have to pay for your expansion to the international market.
Accordingly, the third option, which we have discussed, is differentiated price education.
And how can you offer or implement price indexing here?
It is already being done on the basis of demand and supply.
I want to show you an approach that allows you to carry out this very indexing.
Please pay attention to the table.
In the second column, we have a demand indicator.
In this case, we take the annual volume of goods purchased per person.
And you look at the statistics of countries, how much do consumers spend in these countries.
The third column shows the resulting demand coefficient.
As it is calculated, you take your internal market per unit.
And, accordingly, the difference in the volume of demand will give you the resulting coefficient.
The next column shows the cost of the product.
In this case, we take $ 1,000.
This is, of course, a conditional price.
You can set your price with the demand coefficient, which we have presented in the previous column.
The next column shows us the offer after the price of the product with the demand coefficient.
Here you take into account the number of competitors, which allows you to adjust the conditions of the external and internal markets.
In fact, in addition to the number of competitors, you can also use other indicators, such as the standard of living in a country or something else.
Let's go back to this example.
If we look at our internal market, in this case the US market, we have two competitors.
And when we look at some other markets, we reduce the price if there are more competitors.
And if we took, for example, the standard of living in a country, then, accordingly, if the standard of living in the country N was higher than in our country, then we should have increased the price.
Usually, the percentage of adjustment indicated in brackets is taken in the range of plus or minus 15%.
But the rule remains the same. The more competitors, the lower the price. The higher the standard of living, the higher the price.
And finally, in the penultimate column, we see the resulting comparative price.
And the last column indicates which strategic category another country can fall into.
Either it is at the level of the internal market, or higher, or lower, or much lower.
Now let's pay attention to how companies set prices on international markets.
That is, global pricing. There are two approaches.
Again, the use of a standard price, a single price.
And the second is the use of a price for each market.
What factors affect our decision here?
But before answering the question of what factors affect, let's answer the question of what goals we set in one case or another.
If we are talking about price standardization, then our main goal is to use a single positioning of the goods of the company in all markets.
And, accordingly, the standard price is the support of the positioning strategy that we need.
This does not confuse the consumer.
On the other hand, if we are talking about price differentiation, then our goal is to get the maximum profit.
We understand that markets are different, and we set our price on each market in order to get the maximum from this market.
And the general rule is that it is better to use differentiated prices.
Let's look at the factors.
So, the factors that contribute to price differentiation.
The first is consumer preferences.
And here we will think in terms of price sensitivity.
And if you see that in different countries consumers react differently to prices, then it makes sense to set these different prices.
Where consumers are more price sensitive, the price is lower.
Where consumers are more quality-oriented, the price is higher.
But sometimes companies forget about this.
In particular, this happened with the brand Johnny Walker in Japan.
The Japanese market, as we said, is a market that is traditionally considered a market where you can set high prices, because the consumer is oriented to quality.
And indeed, Johnny Walker was a brand that cost a lot of money, and nevertheless, consumers were happy to buy it.
But the company received information that their main competitor, at that time, was going to enter the market, that is, Shibarigal.
And in order to protect themselves, the company decided to lower the prices, to attract more consumers.
As a result, consumers perceived this as a signal to reduce quality.
And instead of creating barriers to the entry of the competitor, the company actually invited the competitor to the market and lost a share of the market.
The second aspect is the competitive situation.
Here we are talking about the fact that in different markets you will have different opportunities to influence prices.
Depending on whether it is monopoly on the one hand, and on the other hand, absolute competition.
Accordingly, in the first case, you have the opportunity to set your prices, and in the second case, you do not have such an opportunity.
And finally, the costs are also a factor that will push you towards the use of price differentiation.
Since the different cost of materials, different costs for labor, different tax costs, and so on.
All this will mean that in order to cover your costs, let's say, in those markets where they are significant, you will have to set a significant price.
Against the situation when the costs can be lower, and, accordingly, the price can be lower.
This is regarding the market factors.
There is also a block of factors that contribute to price differentiation.
These are external factors.
Here we pay attention to such aspects as inflation and exchange rates.
For example, we saw in 1998 that very seriously, sharp changes in the exchange rate can shake the company's competitive positions.
And therefore, companies begin to have to change their prices.
For example, if we talk about inflation, God forbid, hyperinflation, companies often have to reconsider their prices, constantly increasing their level.
In particular, the 1980s were characterized by high rates of inflation in many countries.
In particular, in the 1980s, the company Procter & Gamble had to increase its production prices by 30% every two weeks.
And in the end, the company understood that it was losing its customers, but it had nothing left.
If we look at one more criterion, it is regulation, tariffs, and fees.
In the case when a company faces high tariff protection, this is what we were talking about.
This is the additional effect of escalation.
You will have to increase the price.
What contributes to price standardization?
The first is, contrary to what we just said, high tariffs, on the contrary, a reduction in trade barriers.
And this is what allows you to level the prices in the markets.
A reduction in transport costs also allows you to level the prices in different markets.
Another important factor is global supply.
How can this affect you?
Let's see.
If you are a supplier of a global network, for example, Ashan,
Ashan will require maximum discounts from you.
Moreover, we know that Ashan is present in a huge number of markets.
If you sell them products at the same price in Russia, which suits them,
and, say, in the UK or France, you offer them the same product at a higher price,
the company will not understand you and will require a single price from you, which satisfies it,
on all absolute markets.
Therefore, the pressure of these active retailers is clearly contributing to price harmonization,
that is, to the price standard.
Improving communication and information flows.
Look, previously, it was unlikely for a consumer to make long trips from country to country
to compare prices in cars in different countries and choose the cheapest one.
Naturally, he would pay much more for such a voyage than to buy it right on his own domestic market.
Now the situation is different.
You can actually go on the Internet and look at the prices in a number of countries.
If your trip will pay off the difference in prices, you will buy in a country where this product will be cheaper.
Accordingly, what happens?
Since the consumer has the opportunity to compare, we cannot simply assign different prices on different markets without any explanations.
Otherwise, if the explanation is not followed, the consumer can switch to the product of another company.
Finally, globalization and standardization of brands.
As we have already said, this is the most common price, this is the support of a common price education.
Accordingly, we need to say that since we want to get a global brand, we need common prices.
However, companies rarely use a 100% common price.
There is a certain corridor of plus or minus N% for the fact that there are changes in exchange rates, changes in costs, and so on.
What else is there to say?
What is the significant danger of using price differentiation?
What I suggested as a more correct solution is that if you sell products at a low price on one market,
and at a high price on another market, there may be a situation when there is an intermediate link,
which, having discovered this difference, will start buying products at a low price and reselling them at a high price.
Of course, you understand that the costs of moving this product to the high-priced market must be taken into account.
But this problem exists and it is called parallel import.
This is the situation that Procter & Gamble faced in 1998 on the Russian market.
The company has been on the Russian market since 1995 with its Always product.
In 1998, this brand became the market leader.
I must say that Russian consumers accepted it very well.
The company decided that its positioning would be the same as in Western Europe, and the prices would be the same as in Western Europe.
While in a significant number of countries in Eastern Europe, the company's products were sold at prices lower than in Western Europe and Russia.
And what started to happen?
Procter & Gamble Russia found that in early 1998, compared to the same period last year, the volume of purchases in Procter & Gamble Russia was reduced by 40%.
Due to what?
Due to the fact that parallel import from Poland began.
And this flow began to be sold on open markets at prices lower than in retail networks.
The share of the company's market in the Russian market has actually even increased.
But there was a problem.
The problem is that in this case, demotivation of white channels occurs.
Gray channels are involved, and white channels are demotivated.
I think this is a typical situation.
I suggest you turn off the presentation for a second and try to find a way to solve this problem.
So, what are the possibilities of solving the problem of parallel import?
The first possibility is the pursuit of gray intermediaries in the judicial system.
But this is certainly due to a very small number of companies.
An example here may be Seiko.
Another possibility is to simply limit, or rather stop supplying products to the market, from where this parallel import flow comes from, if this market is not very significant for your company.
And finally, the third option is when you are already using marketing tools.
What are the possibilities here?
The first possibility is to try to vary the price a little.
That is, to reduce it a little on the market with high prices, and at the same time raise it a little on the market with low prices.
So that this very attractiveness of parallel import disappears.
In other words, creating a price corridor.
Another possibility is to track these very gray channels.
And you will simply do the following.
You will not serve the products that come to your market via gray channels.
It must be said right away that this is possible if, for example, you are a household appliance manufacturer.
You simply do not provide warranty service for this particular appliance.
But in order to understand which appliance you are servicing, which you are not, you will have to place a small logo or something that will help you identify this product.
And finally, what other companies often do, although this may not be the most ideal way, is to make changes to the product itself.
But in this case, you understand that you are going to additional costs.
And still, you will not be able to confuse the product intended for different markets.
Our next block, or the next aspect of the strategy, is international distribution of products.
What companies need to pay attention to here?
First, you need to decide how you organize your sales activities in foreign markets.
And here we have the opportunity to organize direct sales.
You can organize sales through intermediaries.
And you can use so-called joint sales.
Although, of course, there are possible approaches when you combine all these options.
Let's look at the first fundamental decision on how to choose direct sales or sales through intermediaries.
Usually, when sales volumes in foreign markets are growing, companies tend to fully control all operations and gradually switch to direct sales, refusing intermediary services.
You can solve this in advance, and this will be good in the case of a complicated specific product, for example, airplanes.
In this case, it is very often about selling the product directly.
And in the event of problems, you send your specialists to this country to serve this aircraft.
What else is very important?
Still, companies that are just starting to work in international markets, often use intermediaries.
Of course, this is an opportunity to reduce the risks of working in an unknown business environment.
And here you will have to make a number of decisions.
That is, what type of intermediaries will you use for your product?
Will it be retail intermediaries, or will it be a wholesale link, or something else?
You will have to assess the availability and possibilities of different types of intermediaries.
And then, the most important thing, you must clearly describe what functions will be in your hands, what functions will your intermediary perform.
By the way, it is very important to control the brand's perception and associations that your brand will form in this market.
Therefore, very often, some aspects related to promotion, at least, you do not give fully to your intermediaries, but strive to do it together.
Then, of course, having distributed the functions, you will see what are the costs of performing these functions against the benefits that you see in the case of transferring these functions to an intermediary.
And finally, naturally, you will have to assess what degree of control of the company over the intermediary you want to receive.
I would also like to draw your attention to this relatively new model of joint sales.
This is a situation when your company can find a partner who already has ready-made sales channels on this market and enter these channels.
Naturally, on certain conditions. What does this give?
This gives the most complete use of the capabilities of the already working sales channel.
And, accordingly, risks are shared here, but also income is shared.
In what cases does this work?
It works if you have compatible goods.
In particular, here is an example of a joint use of the sales channel created by AVEN in China.
They have a sales staff of 85,000 people.
And the Motel company has successfully entered this channel and promotes its products through this channel.
These are Barbie dolls and Sesame Street.
We must also pay attention to the fact that when to give up intermediaries and switch to a direct controlled trading branch.
You can look here at the life cycle of the international distributor.
We can see that very often, at first, the sales of your product on the market grow very quickly.
But then, at some point, these rates of growth slow down and go into a plateau.
And in this situation, when the company discovers such a situation, it often changes its strategy on this market and switches to its own trading branch.
After that, sales again very often begin to grow.
Undoubtedly, this problem occurs quite often.
And here, in fact, additional problems and disputes may arise, since the local distributor may not want to give up the market.
Therefore, companies should immediately prescribe this in the contract with the distributor.
The possibility of either buying out his business or somehow transferring all rights to promote the sale of the company's goods will go to your company.
If we have decided that we will work on an international market using an intermediary, we will need to approach the issue of choosing the ideal distributor very carefully.
There are several rules.
The first rule states that you should choose the distributor, not him or her.
Why?
Because there are often situations when, for example, at some international exhibitions, fairs, the company is simply bypassed by potential distributors.
But it turns out that they are representatives of a competing company, and they will not be interested in developing your product, but will rather supplement the existing assortment chain with additional goods.
The second aspect is that you need to find a distributor who is able to develop your product, and not just a distributor who has a constant circle of customers.
This is a situation when we can see that the company is trying to rip off the low-hanging fruit.
This is not good. In this case, your sales will really enter this stage of stagnation very quickly, and sales revenues will not grow.
There is a clear danger here.
Therefore, you need to build a long-term relationship with the distributor as a long-term partner, and in no case consider him as a temporary assistant.
What allows you to show the distributor that you really consider him as a serious partner?
Perhaps, in the contract, you must immediately prescribe the opportunities for training your partner's personnel, joint advertising and joint shares.
That is, everything that will show your partner the seriousness of your relationship.
Then you need to allocate a sufficient amount of resources, money and ideas for the conquest of this new market.
Otherwise, your product's market will not develop, because it is unlikely that your distributor will be so interested in your product that he will solve these issues for you.
The next aspect is very important.
It is very important to constantly control the marketing policy of the distributor from the very beginning.
Otherwise, you can get into an unpleasant situation, which, for example, happened with the company LVMH in the Russian market,
when they sold their products through retail traders like Arbat Prestige.
On the one hand, the luxury brands of LVMH, and on the other hand, the pricing policy of a retail trader are completely incompatible.
Therefore, LVMH was forced to leave this network, and its brands are still not presented there.
The next aspect, the next rule is to make sure that the distributor provides you with detailed information about the market and the financial results of sales.
This is important for you to correct your actions in time and, perhaps, to respond to any negative changes in the market situation.
Finally, it is necessary to create a system of communication between your distributors from various national markets.
This will help to flow of ideas, and this, in the end, can improve the quality of sales in different countries.
And finally, the final element that we must consider is international communications, how to use them.
Of course, if we are talking about the fact that our products are not yet very well known or completely unknown on international markets,
we will need to create awareness about our product.
This means that we may have to use all available channels of communication, starting with advertising and ending with, for example, Internet advertising.
Although, very often you will face the fact that advertising will not be very accessible due to its high cost.
What should you consider?
We have important factors of influence that will affect the communication process.
First of all, these are language differences, other cultural differences that we have already talked about, the difference in legal requirements.
In particular, there are different laws in different countries that regulate advertising and, for example, sales.
Therefore, it will be necessary to clearly consider what you can do in which country and what you cannot.
The difference in competition conditions can also seriously affect how and what you will convey to your foreign consumer.
In particular, if you say in all your advertising messages and all your communications that you are the number one brand, the only quality or the only wonderful choice for the consumer,
but in fact you are not number one on the market, the consumer will not understand you.
But if this is confirmed by statistics, if, as in the case of Holland and Heineken, this brand is really the undisputed leader of the market, then yes, you can declare such things.
And how can we decide what approaches to use? Standardized or adapted communications, in particular advertising?
If we are talking about standardized advertising, then this is certainly a plus in terms of saving costs, in terms of improving the quality of advertising in certain countries,
because sometimes there may not be advertising agencies in the country that are able to make very high-quality advertising.
And then you use a common product, an advertising product that was developed for your brand and, accordingly, aimed at a global audience.
And the most important thing is that it prevents the generation of incompatible advertising appeals for different countries.
What companies use this approach very clearly? These are companies like Nike, Intel, Coca-Cola.
On the other hand, adapted advertising allows you to take into account all possible differences in the specifics of the country's markets, and especially cultural and linguistic differences.
And, as we have already said, this is very important if there are restrictions on advertising.
And here I would like to give you an example of a company, an advertising company, Desodorants Impulse,
which initially assumed that the central idea of these ads would be that when a woman uses a Desodorant Spray Impulse,
no man will be able to resist the temptation and will definitely give her flowers.
But how did the company use the differences? In the first advertising videos aimed at different countries, the company used, in particular, in French advertising,
a man bought flowers, in Italian, for example, he tore flowers. And for the first time, the company sought to show these cultural differences.
But over time, the company switched to standardized advertising.
And yet, companies strive to use mixed advertising on foreign markets, which allows, on the one hand, to develop a single concept,
but on the other hand, taking into account linguistic, cultural and other differences, to make advertising, communication, which will be understandable, which will be close to the consumer on foreign markets.
International marketing
Thus, today we managed to answer a number of significant questions of international marketing.
We have dealt with what are the benefits of internationalization versus risks.
We tried to answer the question of what are the ways for companies to the global market.
We developed this topic using the experience of foreign companies and looking at what opportunities Russian companies have.
And then we looked at the tool that you can use to develop international marketing strategies.
Thank you for your attention. Goodbye.